feel very approachable and excited to have you.
Right, so I'm going to start with some questions
and then we're going to open it up.
Let me get straight into it.
So Bill Gates said, there is no one in our time who has done more to push the bounds of science innovation than you.
What's kind of answer?
Well, that's it.
That's a nice thing to have anyone's to say about you.
Nice coming from Bill Gates.
But oddly enough, when it comes to AI, actually, for around a decade, you've almost been in the opposite and saying, hang on, we need to think about what we're doing and what we're pushing here and what do we do to make this safe
and actually maybe we shouldn't be pushing as fast or as hard as we are.
You've been doing it for a decade.
What was it that caused you to think about it that way and why do we need to be?
Yeah, I've been so much.
I would tell you we're like, we're really, really.
But since I was, but I think this year was the point of which is the video, and then quite remarkable.
Now I saw Gbt, kind of see where it's, I'm glad to see safety where there is no guess, but it is usually those stories.
So you talked a little bit about the summit and thank you for being engaged in it, which is being part of this dialogue.
Now, one of the things that we achieve in the meetings between the companies and the leaders was an agreement that externally, ideally governments should be doing safety tests of models before they're released.
I think this is something that you've spoken about a little bit.
It was something we worked really hard on because my government is to say, hang on, there is a potential risk here, not a definite risk, but a potential risk.
My job is to protect the country.
And we can only do that.
Safety institute and then go in and make sure we can test the least.
Delight of that happened today.
But what's your view of what we should be doing?
You've talked about the potential risk.
Right again, we know.
But what are the types of things governments like to manage and mitigate against those risks?
Well, I generally think that, really for the vast controversy, there is some kind of, and it will be, it's true.
But I think there's nobody technology
and I speak technologists and likes that are on or good, more potential.
And then how you talk about referee and that's what we're doing.
Yeah, well, there we go.
I mean, you know, and we talked about this and Dennis
and I discussed this a long time ago.
I'm like literally facing right at it.
And actually, you know, Dennis to his credit and the credit of people in the industry did say that to us.
Yeah, I think you're going to say it's not right that Dennis and his colleagues are on home work, right?
There needs to be someone independent.
And that's what that the safety here.
I mean, do you think governments can develop the expertise?
One of the things we need to do you know, Dennis, all the others have got a lot of very smiths.
Governments need to quickly to a lot of ways, personnel wise, which is what we're doing.
I mean, do you think it is possible for governments to do that fast is developing?
Or what do we need to do to make?
No, I think it's good.
It's the past.
It's you.
It's so, but I so we're having inside like even if that's what you know, well, I hope you know, yeah, no, but that's how I share and we were talking before it was striking, you know, you're someone who spent their life in the living man.
What was interesting over the last couple, everyone the development of this, I think you can cover this is it's just the pace of advancement here is unlike anything.
Yeah.
All of you have seen in your careers and technology as you've got these things effects from the day.
I mean, the two generally.
I mean, you actually, you mentioned China there.
So I took a decision to invite China to summit over the last few days.
And it was not an easy decision.
A lot of people criticize me for it.
You know, my viewers, if you're going to try a serious conversation, you need to.
But what would your thoughts?
You do business all around the world.
You just talk,
yeah, you know, should we be engaging with them?
Can we trust them?
Is that the right?
If we don't, if it's the circulation or seed, but actually try and it they just been pointless.
It's pointless.
Yeah, I know that.
And I think we were pleased.
They were engaged yesterday in the discussions and actually ended up signing the same okay that everyone else did.
That's great.
Which is a good stunt to approach us in a realistic chance of resolving it.
I was going to tell you talked about innovation earlier and regulation being annoying.
There was a good debate today.
We had about open source.
And I think you've kind of algorithmic transparency and the ex out.
And we actually were talking about every hint on the way.
He's particularly been very concerned about open source models being used by bad actors.
You've got a group of people who say they are critical to happening in that distributed way.
Look, it's a trick.
There's probably no perfect answer.
And there's a tricky balance.
What are your thoughts on how we should approach this open source question or where should we be targeting whatever regulatory or monitoring?
Well, the open source is a close source.
But so the close.
But it's a quite what you do about it.
It should be some source.
You can test and run a bunch of tests deterministic.
It's a really each line.
Now, at that point, you've just had a lot because again, conversely, make the point that you've just it is not like normal software where there's predictability about inputs improving leading to this particular.
And as the models iterate, quite know what's going to end.
And then this would agree with that, which is why I think there is this bias for getting there while the training runs are being done.
It's a release to what is the capability, which it sounds like you would agree with.
I was going to shift gears a little bit.
You know, you've talked a lot about human consciousness, human agency.
Which actually might strike people as a strange given the innovator and technologist.
But it's quite heartfelt when I hear you talk about it and the importance of maintaining that agency and preserving human consciousness.
Now, it kind of links to the thing I was going to ask is when I do interviews with people out and about in this job of that AI, the thing that comes up most actually is it's probably not so much the stuff we've been talking about.
It's what does AI mean for my job?
Is it going to mean that I have kids are not going to have a job?
You know, my answer as a policy maker is a leader is create, you can see that in the companies that are starting.
Also, the way it's a little bit more as a copilot, necessarily versus replacing the person.
There's still human agency, but it's held your age back.
And as we've seen with solutions in the past, clearly there's an amount of jobs, quoting an MIT years ago, something like six at that moment didn't exist 40 years ago.
And my job is to create an incredible education system, whether it's at school, whether it's ultimately got a skilled population, the pace of good life.
But, you know, it's still a concern.
And, you know, what would your kind of observables jobs and how they should feel?
Well, I think we are seeing what's happening.
That is, it's hard to worry.
It's good.
That's why I say, if you we, that gives you any wishes you want, and much limit, not since it's both beautiful.
I do think we, it's hard for anything.
It won't be, we won't have universal based.
So, in some time, I have access to any question.
It'll be so.
So, there will be, I'd recommend that.
Which is good from a, as you said, it's a universal high income, which is a nice phrase.
And, it's good from a materialistic sense, a of abundance question that you pose.
I'm, somebody who believes, you know, work a lot about that as, you know, I think work is a good thing.
You know, where do you get that drive, that motivation, that purpose?
I mean, you're talking about it.
You work a lot of, you know, I'm talking earlier.
I have just a way of thanks to you, I'm just lash up.
We call, call, call, call, call, demis and tell them to hurry up and then you can have a holiday, right?
Yeah.
No, it's, I look as a tricky, it's a tricky thing because, you know, part of our job is to make sure, navigate largely positive places that you're describing.
It is like helping, helping people through it between them because these things bring them in the labor market.
I think it's probably is generally a good thing because, you know, there are a lot of dangerous or tedious, you know, it's, it's not the, I guess there is, you know, we support, we're, we're, we're human faster than any human.
We saw humans race, we have the sport competitions again, you can be the best time performer tonight.
So I guess that's perhaps a chance of faster than us stronger than us.
We still find a way.
We saw, we saw enjoy computing against other humans, at least.
That's a good, that's a good analogy.
And we've been talking a lot about managing the risks.
I just, before we move on, I finish on AI, it's just talking a little bit about the opportunities.
You know, you're engaged in lots of different companies, new, very, which is doing, which is doing some exciting stuff.
You touch on the thing that I'm probably most excited about, which is in Egypt and many people will have seen South Khan's video from earlier this year.
As you talked about, it's that personal tutor.
Yeah, an amazing personal tutor.
An amazing personal tutor.
And we know the difference of having that person always to reach out for them that then just evolved to, it could be extraordinary.
And so that, you know, for me, I look at, I think, gosh, that is within reach at this point.
And that's one of the benefits I'm most excited about.
When you look at the landscape of things that you see as possible, that, you know, you are, I think, certainly, I think there's also perhaps companionship, which, if you have a remember, you've got to act so every day and those conversations, you will act, as long as that friend can stay, your friend did not get things.
Don't turn off my friends.
But I think that will actually be a real thing.
One of my sons is learning disabilities and has trouble with them.
You know, that was a surprising answer, that's actually worth reflecting on.
That's really interesting.
But we're already seeing it actually as we do, you know, psychothera more of a wise difference.
And you can see that social people.
And just a quick question on, on acts in a body, you made a change in one of the many changes.
But yeah, I've got a few.
One of the, one of the, one of the changes.
You love that letter.
Yeah.
I've got a real thing about it.
You really do.
You really do.
One of the changes, which, you know, kind of, it goes into the space that, you know, we have to operate in and this balance between free speech and moderation is, you know, we grapple with as politicians.
You are grappling with your inversion of that.
And you moved away from a manual, waving it, the moderation, the community notes.
And I think it was, you know, it was an interesting change, right?
It's not what everyone else has done.
It would be good.
You know, what's, what was the reasoning?
Part of the problem is if you, if you empower people as censors, well, there's going to be some amount of bias.
And whoever points the censors is affection.
It's really notes as well.
I mean, it's not really censoring it, but consensus driven.
How do we, or can you say like, what, you can't pass, pass, get to pure truth, but you can aspire to the thing about community notes is it doesn't actually anything.
It simply adds context.
Now that context could be this thing is, but, but importantly with community notes, everything is open source, actually.
So you, there's the song, every line of the software, you can see all the data that went to the note.
So if you've got, if you see manipulation of the data like that, and say, well, there's, there appears to be some gaming and you can suggest it.
So it's, it's, it's maximum transparency.
Combined with the kind of wisdom of the crowds and transparency to get to a better answer is you.
And really what, one of the key elements of community notes is that in order for a note, people who have historically, and there is a bit of AI usage related parameters, each contributed to parameter space.
So everyone's got basic these vectors system, which, so it's, it's not as simple as, as Ryge or left, it's saying, it's, it's more, it's several, and then we'll, we'll inverse correlation.
So these people generally disagree, but they agree on that, that, that gives, yeah.
That's, that's, that's the, that's the core of it.
And that's what, I, I get to see a note actually, that, that is incorrect.
So the bad thing I got, and, and what, when I ask people, say, I worry about community notes, it's sort of being disenfranchised.
So, so I think it's, I think it's quite good.
I mean, the general aspiration is with, with the X platform and, and to be as accurate as possible, and it's truthful as, even if someone doesn't like, this is not, people that I'm, no, it's not always.
But, but that's, that's, that's the aspiration.
And I think if, if we are, if we used, use this until, it would, I think actually, I mean, assuming you don't want to engage in self, then I think it's, it's, it's, it's,
it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's,
